README.md, before:

# Updating the Future of Coding

In this repository you'll find code to reproduce the analysis and tables in the paper:

> Than, Nga, Leanne Fan, Tina Law, Laura K. Nelson, and Leslie McCall. Forthcoming. "Updating 'The Future of Coding': Qualitative Coding with Generative Large Language Models." _Sociological Methods & Research._

> Preprint: https://osf.io/preprints/socarxiv/wg82k_v2

The paper is built on previous work by some of the authors:  
  
> Nelson, Laura K., Derek Burk, Marcel Knudsen, and Leslie McCall. 2018. "The Future of Coding: A Comparison of Hand-Coding and Three Types of Computer-Assisted Text Analysis Methods." _Sociological Methods & Research_, 50(1): 202-237. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124118769114 (Original work published 2021)  
  
> Replication repository: https://github.com/lknelson/future-of-coding

## Data:
- All of the original hand-coding of the news articles, plus the generated LLM codes from all of the tests
- The combined LLM-generated definitions

## Scripts:

The scripts folders contain the code to partially reproduce the analysis and metrics, including the fine tuning metrics reported in Appendix F.

Three folders contain the code to reproduce the LLM-generated code for our tests.

*Note these can't be fully reproduced as we can't post the entire news articles due to copyright. But we have posted enough information about each article in the data files for anyone to pull the same articles, which you can then use to replicate the analysis.*

* `scripts-relevant-zeroshot`
* `scripts-inequality-zeroshot`
* `scripts-inequalit-fewshot`

* `fine-tuning` contains the code to replicate the fine tuning approaches, reported in Appendix F. 

Others folders contain code and are fully reproducible:

* `scripts-generate-LLM-definitions` contains the scripts used to generate LLM definitions of inequality, for use in our tests

* `scripts-generate-accuracy-measures` reproduces the metrics in Table 3

* `scripts-inter-agreement` reproduces the metrics in Appendix E

Commit message:

adding missing library code chunks in a few of the scripts, deleting extra metrics code chunk in one of the scripts

README.md, after:

# Updating the Future of Coding

In this repository you'll find code to reproduce the analysis and tables in the paper:

> Than, Nga, Leanne Fan, Tina Law, Laura K. Nelson, and Leslie McCall. Forthcoming. "Updating 'The Future of Coding': Qualitative Coding with Generative Large Language Models." _Sociological Methods & Research._

> Preprint: https://osf.io/preprints/socarxiv/wg82k_v2

The paper is built on previous work by some of the authors:  
  
> Nelson, Laura K., Derek Burk, Marcel Knudsen, and Leslie McCall. 2018. "The Future of Coding: A Comparison of Hand-Coding and Three Types of Computer-Assisted Text Analysis Methods." _Sociological Methods & Research_, 50(1): 202-237. https://doi.org/10.1177/0049124118769114 (Original work published 2021)  
  
> Replication repository: https://github.com/lknelson/future-of-coding

In this paper we use multiple large language models (GPT4, Gemma2, Llama3:70b, and Llama3.1:70b) to classify text. We provide scripts for each of these models. We ran the open-source models locally using the `ollama` library in Python.


## Data:
- All of the original hand-coding of the news articles, plus the generated LLM codes from all of the tests
- The combined LLM-generated definitions

## Scripts:

The scripts folders contain the code to partially reproduce the analysis and metrics, including the fine tuning metrics reported in Appendix F.

Three folders contain the code to reproduce the LLM-generated code for our tests.

*Note these can't be fully reproduced as we can't post the entire news articles due to copyright. But we have posted enough information about each article in the data files for anyone to pull the same articles, which you can then use to replicate the analysis.*

* `scripts-relevant-zeroshot`
* `scripts-inequality-zeroshot`
* `scripts-inequalit-fewshot`

* `fine-tuning` contains the code to replicate the fine tuning approaches, reported in Appendix F. 

Others folders contain code and are fully reproducible:

* `scripts-generate-LLM-definitions` contains the scripts used to generate LLM definitions of inequality, for use in our tests

* `scripts-generate-accuracy-measures` reproduces the metrics in Table 3

* `scripts-inter-agreement` reproduces the metrics in Appendix E
